Headlines from talk by Rami Ismail.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o7KSbdIEA0U

Additional link from talk: http://www.vlambeer.com/toolkit/

Lesson 1) "Why" is the biggest question.

It is important to have a really good answer to the questions "Why do you make
games?"

It's important to know why you do what you do.

If you haven't asked yourself, ask yourself why you haven't.

Lesson 2) Design is communication

Lesson 3) Be a little less normal.

Distinguish yourself by how you're different.

Only break the mold in things like input intentionally.

Lesson 4) Give more than you take.

Community building.

Lesson 5) Honesty helps make better games.

Be friendly, but honest.

Pitching is hard. Think hard about it.

Lesson 6) Take business seriously.

Negoitiating golden rule: If you haven't pissed off the other person, you
aren't doing it well enough.

Invest, learn to invest.

Gamescom

Lesson 7) Don't take business seriously

If revenue > expenses you're doing well.

All the time you spend on business isn't being spent on the game.

Lesson 8) I'm a fraud and so are you.

Lesson 9) Your currency is motivation

If you don't have the motivation you aren't going to do anything.

If you have skill, but no money, you can make the game.

If you have money, but no skill, you can hire someone to make the game.

Without motivation: You won't make the game.

Lesson 10) Ideas are really cheap. aren't worth anything. Everyone has ideas.

Lesson 11) Failure is good.

Lesson 12) An industry is people.

Take care how you treat people.

Lesson 13) Everthing is a remix.

If you're creative you're creating things out of everything you know and have
experienced. The more everything you have the better a designer and creator
you will be.

Lesson 14) Your game can talk to you, too.

The game talks to us. Start something and see where it grows.

Lesson 15) Don't rely on patterns.

The world is changing. The internet didn't exist twenty years ago.

Change along with the world.

Lesson 16) The world is out there

There's a lot of cool things out there. Traveling lets you experience them.

Think of games as a global audience.

Lesson 17) You can't make the game in your head.

It's impossible. Make prototypes, iterate, so on.

Lesson 18) Don't define things for others.

Lesson 19) Decide, don't accept

Lesson 20) Don't be afraid to ask questions.

Lesson 21) Go on already

